You will see in a second that implementing Websockets is much more simple than you can expect.

### Initializing 

First, let's begin creating a basic server with `http` module provided by Node.js.

So, after initializing a node.js project, installing ``socket.io`` library through ``npm i socket.io``, we do the following:

---> ``./index.js``

```
import { createServer } from "http";``
import { Server } from "socket.io";``

const httpServer = createServer( (request, response) => {    
    response.write('{"body": "This is a server example!"}');
    response.end();``
});

const io = new Server(httpServer, {   
    cors:{
		origin:"*",
}});
```


Until now, we are just creating a server instance by ``createServer`` method from ``http`` module. After that, we do the same with socket.IO library. 

As you can see, to create a new server instance with socket.IO, in this case we have are going to pass a previusly HTTP server instance created. But you can do a standalone initialization. Also, we are using tools provided by Node.js, but if you want, you can use external libraries like express and work with it.

The second parameters are options, for this example we are disabling cors-policy to allow any client to connect our server.


### Waiting for events

Whith those few lines, we can now start to listening events. The syntax is the following:

```
io.on("connection", (socket) => {
  ...
});
```


- ``on``: is a method used for listening events.
    
- ``"connection"``: is the name of the event we are listening. In this case, we are listening for every client that connects with our server.
    
- ``callback function``: what should happen when this events occurs.


Here you have a full docs of ``io`` instance: https://socket.io/docs/v4/server-instance/


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Using socket events

There are cases when using global events is useful. But, if we want our app to react certain events executed by client, we need to do the following

```
io.on("connection", (socket) => {
    socket.on('client:join-room', (data) => {
	    ...
    })
});
```


We are now listening to ``"client:joint-room"`` event, that i create for demostration, but you can create as many random events name as you want.

Finally, let's create another event to detect user disconnection. This is the syntax

```
io.on("connection", (socket) => {

	socket.on('client:join-room', (data) => {
	    ...
    })
        
	socket.on("disconnect", () => {
        console.log(socket.id, "disconnected");
    });
        
});
```





