
So far, looks great, but, which are the benefits of Websockets?

Well, there are certains cases where Websockets are better than traditional HTTP protocol:

1. **Realtime updates:** When a client needs to be notified when new information becomes available, WebSockets are generally a good fit. 
    
2. **Bidirectional communication:** WebSockets provide low latency bidirectional communication, allowing instant data transfer between the client and server. Unlike HTTP, which requires a new request for every server response, WebSockets maintain a persistent connection, making them ideal for realtime applications like chat, gaming, and live updates.
    
3. **Low latency updates:** WebSockets have less overhead compared to HTTP, as they don't require the headers and handshakes for each request-response cycle. This efficiency leads to lower data transfer costs and improved performance for realtime situations.


But as you can imagine, Websockets are not used in the majority of apps. The reason for this, is because HTTP protocol it is still useful in various scenarios.

For example. Through HTTP **we can create cacheable resources**, something that is unavailable in websockets.

**When we are implementing a REST API**, HTTP methods such as POST, GET, and UPDATE align perfect with REST principles.

Also, the request-response pattern is well-suited to operations that require synchronization or need to execute in a specific order. This is because HTTP requests are always accompanied by a response that tells you the result of the operation (be that “200 OK” or not). By comparison, WebSockets offer no guarantee that a message will be acknowledged in any form out of the box.

Finally, **HTTP is ubiquitous and widely-supported**. In increasingly rare situations, misconfigured our outdated enterprise firewalls can interfere with the WebSocket upgrade handshake, preventing a connection from being established. In such cases, a fallback to HTTP streaming or long polling is required.


